.Dd May 2, 2005
.Os
.Dt PYTEST 1 LOCAL
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh NAME
.Nm pytest
.Nd a testing interpreter for Python
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar pattern
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION

Pytest is a testing interpreter for Python.  It differs from a testing
.Em framework
in that tests written for pytest involve no framework apart from the
Python language itself. Pytests are regular Python scripts that are interpreted
in a special way.  Specifically, all explicit comparison statements (i.e., those
with a comparison operator), are interpreted as tests, and their results are
tallied and reported on following execution of the script.

Pytest will process all files in the current directory that match the Unix
filename pattern
.Ar pattern .
If more than one file
matches (or if
.Ar pattern
is not equivalent to a single matching filename),
then pytest will report on the results in aggregate as well as individually.

The
.Pa doc/tutorial.pyt
file included with the distribution discusses pytest
usage in detail.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
This program is known to work with the following software:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -offset indent -compact
.It
FreeBSD 4.11
.It
Python 2.3.5, 2.4
.El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh FILES
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh EXAMPLES
Test a single file, sending the report to your pager:
.Bl -item -offset indent
.It
$ pytest tutorial.pyt | less
.El

Test all files in the current directory with the .pyt extension:
.Bl -item -offset indent
.It
$ pytest '*.pyt'
.El

Remember to quote a pattern with special characters so that your shell does not
expand it before pytest has a chance to.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr python 1
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Bl -hang
.\".It Em 2005-05-01
.\"released version 0.8
.\".El
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bl -item -compact
.It
(c) 2005 Chad Whitacre <http://www.zetadev.com/>
.It
This program is beerware. If you like it, buy me a beer someday.
.It
No warranty is expressed or implied.
.El
